README.md, before:

# Node SSL Validator

This module is a validator for SSL Certificates using the [PEM node module](https://www.npmjs.com/package/pem). You can validate SSL Keys, SSL Certificates, SSL Certificate Domains, SSL Certificate Bundles, etc.

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/Losant/ssl-validator.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/Losant/ssl-validator) [![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/ssl-validator.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/js/ssl-validator)

* [Installation](#installation)
* [API Documentation](#api-documentation)
  * [validateSSL](#validate-ssl)
  * [validateSSLCert](#validate-ssl-cert)
  * [validateSSLKey](#validate-ssl-key)
  * [validateCertBundle](#validate-cert-bundle)
  * [validateCertKeyPair](#validate-cert-key-pair)
  * [validateCertToDomain](#validate-cert-to-domain)
  * [isValid Functions](#isvalid-functions)
* [License](#license)

## Installation

```bash
npm install ssl-validator
```

or

```bash
yarn add ssl-validator
```

## API Documentation

All of these functions will throw an error if something is invalid, except the [`isValid functions`](#isvalid-functions), which will return  `true` or `false`.

### Validate SSL

```javascript
const { validateSSL } = require('ssl-validator');

await validateSSL(cert, options);
```

| Option | Type | Default | Description |
| :----- | :--- | ------- | :---------- |
| skipDateValidation | Boolean | false | Skip verifying the [certificate's](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Public_key_certificate) and/or bundle's validity period. |
| key | String | | When given, validates that the key and certificate are a pair. |
| domain | String | | When given, verifies the certificate is valid for this domain. e.g. `'github.com'` |
| bundle | String | | When given, verifies the [certificate bundle](https://www.namecheap.com/support/knowledgebase/article.aspx/986/69/what-is-ca-bundle) and certificate go together. |

### Validate SSL Cert

This function validates that the certificate is an SSL certificate and checks the validity period.

```javascript
const { validateSSLCert } = require('ssl-validator');

await validateSSLCert(cert, options);
```

| Option | Type | Default | Description |
| :----- | :--- | ------- | :---------- |
| skipDateValidation | Boolean | false | Skip verifying the given certificate's validity period. |

### Validate SSL Key

This function validates that the certificate is an SSL certificate and checks the validity period.

```javascript
const { validateSSLKey } = require('ssl-validator');

await validateSSLKey(key);
```

### Validate Cert Bundle

This function validates that the certificate and the bundle are certificates, and ensures that the bundle and certificate go together.

```javascript
const { validateCertBundle } = require('ssl-validator');

await validateCertBundle(cert, bundle, options);
```

| Option | Type | Default | Description |
| :----- | :--- | ------- | :---------- |
| skipDateValidation | Boolean | false | Skip verifying the certificate's and bundle's validity period. |

### Validate Cert Key Pair

This function validates that the given certificate and key are a matching pair.

```javascript
const { validateCertKeyPair } = require('ssl-validator');

await validateCertKeyPair(cert, key, options);
```

| Option | Type | Default | Description |
| :----- | :--- | ------- | :---------- |
| skipDateValidation | Boolean | false | Skip verifying the given certificate's validity period. |

### Validate Cert To Domain

This function validates the given certificate and that it matches the given domain.

```javascript
const { validateCertToDomain } = require('ssl-validator');

await validateCertToDomain(cert, domain, options);
```

| Option | Type | Default | Description |
| :----- | :--- | ------- | :---------- |
| skipDateValidation | Boolean | false | Skip verifying the given certificate's validity period. |

### IsValid Functions

Each of the functions listed above (validateSSL, validateSSLCert, etc.) has a counterpart that will not throw any errors but will return `true` when valid and `false` when not valid. All arguments and options are listed above are valid.

| Original Function Name | Predicate Function Name |
| :--------------- | :------------- |
| validateSSL | isValidSSL |
| validateSSLCert | isValidSSLCert |
| validateSSLKey | isValidSSLKey |
| validateCertBundle | isValidCertBundle |
| validateCertKeyPair | isValidCertKeyPair |
| validateCertToDomain | isValidCertToDomain |

```javascript
const { isValidSSL } = require('ssl-validator');

if (!(await isValidSSL(cert))) {
  return { message: 'Sorry, the certificate supplied is not valid.' };
}
```

## License

The module is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

Commit message:

adding code coverage for giggles, updating option to skipFormatValidation, updating readme

README.md, after:

# Node SSL Validator

This module is a validator for SSL Certificates using the [PEM node module](https://www.npmjs.com/package/pem). You can validate SSL Keys, SSL Certificates, SSL Certificate Domains, SSL Certificate Bundles, etc.

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/Losant/ssl-validator.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/Losant/ssl-validator) [![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/ssl-validator.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/js/ssl-validator)

* [Installation](#installation)
* [API Documentation](#api-documentation)
  * [validateSSL](#validate-ssl)
  * [validateSSLCert](#validate-ssl-cert)
  * [validateSSLKey](#validate-ssl-key)
  * [validateCertBundle](#validate-cert-bundle)
  * [validateCertKeyPair](#validate-cert-key-pair)
  * [validateCertToDomain](#validate-cert-to-domain)
  * [isValid Functions](#isvalid-functions)
* [License](#license)

## Installation

```bash
npm install ssl-validator
```

or

```bash
yarn add ssl-validator
```

## API Documentation

All of these functions will throw an error if something is invalid, except the [`isValid functions`](#isvalid-functions), which will return  `true` or `false`.

### Validate SSL

```javascript
const { validateSSL } = require('ssl-validator');

await validateSSL(cert, options);
```

| Option | Type | Default | Description |
| :----- | :--- | ------- | :---------- |
| skipDateValidation | Boolean | false | Skip verifying the [certificate's](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Public_key_certificate) and/or bundle's validity period. |
| key | String | | When given, validates that the key and certificate are a pair. |
| domain | String | | When given, verifies the certificate is valid for this domain. e.g. `'github.com'` |
| bundle | String | | When given, verifies the [certificate bundle](https://www.namecheap.com/support/knowledgebase/article.aspx/986/69/what-is-ca-bundle) and certificate go together. |
| skipFormatValidation | Boolean | false | When true skip validation the format of the certificate and the key. |
| password | String | | A password that will be given to openssl when verfiying the key. |

### Validate SSL Cert

This function validates that the certificate is an SSL certificate and checks the validity period.

```javascript
const { validateSSLCert } = require('ssl-validator');

await validateSSLCert(cert, options);
```

| Option | Type | Default | Description |
| :----- | :--- | ------- | :---------- |
| skipDateValidation | Boolean | false | Skip verifying the given certificate's validity period. |
| skipFormatValidation | Boolean | false | When true, skip validation the format of the certificate. | 

### Validate SSL Key

This function validates that the certificate is an SSL certificate and checks the validity period.

```javascript
const { validateSSLKey } = require('ssl-validator');

await validateSSLKey(key, options);
```

| Option | Type | Default | Description |
| :----- | :--- | ------- | :---------- |
| password | String | | A password that will be given to openssl when verfiying the key. |
| skipFormatValidation | Boolean | false | When true, skip validation the format of the key. | 


### Validate Cert Bundle

This function validates that the certificate and the bundle are certificates, and ensures that the bundle and certificate go together.

```javascript
const { validateCertBundle } = require('ssl-validator');

await validateCertBundle(cert, bundle, options);
```

| Option | Type | Default | Description |
| :----- | :--- | ------- | :---------- |
| skipDateValidation | Boolean | false | Skip verifying the [certificate's](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Public_key_certificate) and/or bundle's validity period. |
| key | String | | When given, validates that the key and certificate are a pair. |
| domain | String | | When given, verifies the certificate is valid for this domain. e.g. `'github.com'` |
| skipFormatValidation | Boolean | false | When true skip validation the format of the certificate and the key. |
| password | String | | A password that will be given to openssl when verfiying the key. |

### Validate Cert Key Pair

This function validates that the given certificate and key are a matching pair.

```javascript
const { validateCertKeyPair } = require('ssl-validator');

await validateCertKeyPair(cert, key, options);
```

| Option | Type | Default | Description |
| :----- | :--- | ------- | :---------- |
| skipDateValidation | Boolean | false | Skip verifying the [certificate's](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Public_key_certificate) and/or bundle's validity period. |
| domain | String | | When given, verifies the certificate is valid for this domain. e.g. `'github.com'` |
| bundle | String | | When given, verifies the [certificate bundle](https://www.namecheap.com/support/knowledgebase/article.aspx/986/69/what-is-ca-bundle) and certificate go together. |
| skipFormatValidation | Boolean | false | When true skip validation the format of the certificate and the key. |
| password | String | | A password that will be given to openssl when verfiying the key. |

### Validate Cert To Domain

This function validates the given certificate and that it matches the given domain.

```javascript
const { validateCertToDomain } = require('ssl-validator');

await validateCertToDomain(cert, domain, options);
```

| Option | Type | Default | Description |
| :----- | :--- | ------- | :---------- |
| skipDateValidation | Boolean | false | Skip verifying the [certificate's](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Public_key_certificate) and/or bundle's validity period. |
| key | String | | When given, validates that the key and certificate are a pair. |
| bundle | String | | When given, verifies the [certificate bundle](https://www.namecheap.com/support/knowledgebase/article.aspx/986/69/what-is-ca-bundle) and certificate go together. |
| skipFormatValidation | Boolean | false | When true skip validation the format of the certificate and the key. |
| password | String | | A password that will be given to openssl when verfiying the key. |

### IsValid Functions

Each of the functions listed above (validateSSL, validateSSLCert, etc.) has a counterpart that will not throw any errors but will return `true` when valid and `false` when not valid. All arguments and options are listed above are valid.

| Original Function Name | Predicate Function Name |
| :--------------- | :------------- |
| validateSSL | isValidSSL |
| validateSSLCert | isValidSSLCert |
| validateSSLKey | isValidSSLKey |
| validateCertBundle | isValidCertBundle |
| validateCertKeyPair | isValidCertKeyPair |
| validateCertToDomain | isValidCertToDomain |

```javascript
const { isValidSSL } = require('ssl-validator');

if (!(await isValidSSL(cert))) {
  return { message: 'Sorry, the certificate supplied is not valid.' };
}
```

## License

The module is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).
